Putting the text of Chapter 1 here for ease of access:

ONE
 
The party was at Griffin and Mel’s new place. It was a brownstone on one of those blocks that are almost impossible to get to because of a center median strip. Miss your turn off point and you had to drive almost half a mile out of your way just to get back on track again. It was probably meant to help manage traffic, but it actually had the opposite effect. It took three tries before Keith managed the turn. So Maya was already impatient and in bad humor by the time Mel swung the front door open and pulled her into a hug.  
Music spilled out onto the street. Steve Perry, singing earnestly about his ‘foolish heart’ while inside a few dozen people bumped against each other, holding aloft wineglasses and small plates of pretty finger foods. 
“Everyone’s here!” Mel said. Her eyes were glassy and her lips slack. 
Keith and Maya exchanged a look. Griff and Mel’s “everyone” was very different from theirs. 
“Fun!” Maya responded almost reflexively. 
It didn’t look like fun. The foyer felt too close, and Maya could tell from first glance that among the ‘everyone’, it was just as she guessed. There were more than a few unfamiliar faces, and among the familiar ones, most were people she knew from experience she would struggle to make conversation with.  
She felt Keith’s hand at the small of her back, ushering her forward, as though he didn’t trust that she wouldn’t U-turn, dash back to the car and drive away. 
“Where’s Griff?” he asked. 
“Oh, somewhere.” Mel gave a vague wave of her hand.  
She was wearing no fewer than four rings, each of them bright silver, intricately designed with stones or complicated etching. Her blonde locs were piled high and her head wrapped with scarf that looked like something she may have picked up on her and Griff’s travels, to Machu Picchu or someplace like that. 
“I’ll go find him,” Keith said. 
His hand dropped from Maya’s back as he brushed past her, and she exhaled. 
Mel looked at her, eyes doleful and sympathetic. 
“You guys okay?” she asked. 
Maya shrugged. “Where’s the drinks?” 
Mel laughed. “Kitchen,” she said, pointing somewhere vaguely off to the left. “Grab something then come find me. I’ll give you the tour.” 
Then she too was gone, and Maya was alone.  
For a few moments, she scanned the room and this time she recognized a few more faces. Friends of Griff’s, who Maya occasionally ran into on one of the many occasions that he and Mel orchestrated. He and Mel were always cooking up ‘occasions’, but this time the party was justified. They had bought their first home, a three-story-with-finished-basement townhouse in the heart of the city, in a neighborhood where no one else Maya knew could ever have afforded to live. But Griff and Mel had done some magic that involved “mutual aid” from their “community of friends” managing to raise almost one-hundred-and seventy thousand dollars in gifts as a down payment. 
‘In what world can you just beg your friends for money to buy yourself a house?’ Keith had asked. 
‘In Griff and Mel’s world,’ Maya answered snappishly, even though she’d secretly wondered the same thing. 
Griff, Mel, and their friends were part of a group of artists—singers, songwriters, visual artists, and poets—all of them pushing forty, casting about through life making art and babies, living in a state that swung sharply between middle-class and near-destitution. They had a complicated network of relationships that could be extraordinarily effective at things like getting zoning permits for urban farms, shutting down plans for charter schools and, in Griff and Mel’s case, raising money—with no expectation of repayment—to help them purchase real estate valued at more than a half-million dollars. 
As she headed in the direction where she intuited the kitchen would be, Maya looked around. The house had what people called “great bones.” Original wood paneling, tin ceilings and the kind of detailed craftsmanship that was now rare and expensive. In a matter of months, Griff and Mel would have roped yet another group of friends into a full-on restoration project and by the end of the year, they would have increased the value of their house well in excess of what it was currently worth. 
Tripping past a couple in the narrow hallway leading toward the rear of the townhouse, Maya took note of a door under the stairway—probably a powder room—and the one opposite (likely leading down to the basement).  
“May-bug!” 
Before she knew what was happening, Maya was pulled into a firm, warm hug. The scent of something herbaceous enveloped her, then her brother was holding her at arms’ length and kissing her on the forehead. 
Griff was the quintessentially tall, dark, and handsome ideal, complete with strong, square shoulders, broad chest, and arms like trunks. For much of their lives, Maya had watched women stare at her brother with something like awe, while he careened in and out of relationships, leaving nothing but wreckage behind. That is, until he met his Waterloo in Melanie seven years ago. 
“How d’you like the new crib?” he asked. 
“Haven’t had a chance to see it all yet,” she said. “Just got here. Keith’s looking for you. I was just going to ...” She pointed toward what she believed was the kitchen. 
“You look tense,” Griff said, squeezing her shoulder. “When you’re ready c’mon downstairs so I can smoke you out.” 
Maya smiled and nodded. “Thanks. I’ll— yeah. Sure.” 
Griff gently moved her aside and opened one of the hallway doors, disappearing through it and letting it shut behind him. 
The kitchen was indeed at the end of the hallway. It was large, and wide, spanning what looked to be the entire breadth of the townhouse, with a center island and to the left a living/dining area that was occupied only by a farmhouse table—probably constructed by Griff himself—and two benches on either side. On the table was an array of foods, all of it beautiful and from Maya’s standpoint at least, probably inedible since Griff and Mel were vegan. 
The other guests didn’t seem dissuaded though. They filed around the table, picking items up and putting them on their little plates, cooing and oohing over the selections.  
Maya sighed. 
Turning to her right, her dark brown eyes met a pair of hazel ones. 
“Drink?” 
He was standing at the center island, itself covered, but with various bottles and two large buckets of ice. 
“Sure.” Maya moved closer. “What looks good?” 
“Anything but the food,” he said dryly. 
At that, she took him in more fully and smiled. “You read my mind. I always forget to eat before I come to one of Griff and Mel’s things.” 
Reaching for a bottle of red, Maya spun around until Hazel Eyes handed her a clean wineglass. She nodded her thanks and gave herself a generous pour. 
When she looked up again, he was watching her, a bemused smile on his lips. 
“Have we—” she began. 
“Kian.” He extended a hand and Maya took it. 
It was soft and slightly damp from the beer bottle he had switched to his left hand. 
“Kian,” she repeated. “Maya.” 
“Griff’s sister,” he said. 
Maya nodded and smiled back at him. “Yeah. Did he—” 
“Your name comes up,” he acknowledged. “With Mel sometimes.” 
“Oh.” Maya squinted a little. “So, you are—”  
“Her brother.” 
“Oh!” 
She saw it now. The browned-butter complexion, the almost ash-blonde hair. His was cut low and his face, framed by an equally low, and neatly shaped goatee.  
“Good to meet you, finally,” Kian said. “So, I guess you’re not one of the enlightened.” 
“Excuse me?” 
He motioned in the direction of the farmhouse table buffet. 
“Oh. Yeah. Nah. Not vegan,” Maya said. “In fact, I could murder a burger right now.” 
“A lamb burger,” Kian amended. 
“With blue cheese. Red onions. Maybe even bacon.” 
“Bacon?” He feigned outrage. “That would be not just murder, but murder with aggravating factors. You do know exactly how they execute those poor little piggies, don’t you? I mean, haven’t you watched the videos they sent you?” 
Maya shook her head. “I didn’t get the videos. I told Griff I’d never speak to him again if he ever dropped any of that crap in my inbox.” 
“Well, count yourself lucky. Mel sent me a whole series from PETA. Almost converted me. Almost.” 
Maya took a sip of her wine and smiled at him. “Serves you right for watching them.” 
A few beats of silence passed. Maya looked around the room. People were drifting in and out, most of them dressed much as Mel had been—in ethnic prints, scarves, scruffy sandals and often with equally scruffy hair. The men as well as the women. 
“If Bob Marley wasn’t so loud, you’d hear my stomach growling right now,” Kian said. 
Maya turned her attention to him once again. “Same.” 
“Any reason we should suffer? About two blocks down, there’s a ...” 
“Found the drinks, I see.” 
Maya turned at the sound of Keith’s voice. 
“Beeline,” she answered. 
“This house is sick,” Keith said. He stretched and leaned past her, grabbing the neck of a bottle of Bombay Sapphire. “I don’t know how they pulled this off, but—” 
“Keith.” Maya spoke over him. “This is Kian. Mel’s brother,” she added significantly. 
Keith paused for a moment then looked up as though noticing for the first time that they were not alone. 
“Hey,” he said. 
“Good to meet you,” Kian said. “You’re —” 
Keith relinquished the bottle of gin and stood upright, giving Kian his full attention. 
“Keith. Williamson.” He extended his hand again, this time in the other man’s direction. “Maya’s husband.” 
 